Experts say that artificial intelligence will fuel cybercrime attacks in the current
year 2025 [3]. As defined by the Oxford Dictionary, artificial intelligence (AI)
involves the use of computer systems to carry out tasks or generate outputs that
typically require human intelligence, often through the application of machine
learning methods to extensive datasets. While AI has its own advantages and
good uses, as it rapidly grows, there are criminals that use it for what we call
cybercrime [4].
Artificial intelligence is being used by criminals for automated, adaptive and
large-scale threats [5] which can also be known as AI-Powered cyber attacks.
While AI-powered security solutions help companies detect and prevent cyber-
attacks, hackers are also using them to develop advanced attack techniques such
as deepfake-based fraud [5]. Which is when an AI tool is used to generate fake
media that manipulates facial features. An example is when they use another
person’s video where they are saying a completely different thing and change it
to what they want that person to say, usually asking for money.
They also use it for phishing schemes which is the most common. This is
when they trick you into releasing very sensitive information. An example would
be an SMS (short message service) stating that you received money, but to claim
you need click on the link. Then before you know it your money is gone. It is
reported that globally 57 percent of companies receive phishing attempts [6].
Lastly, these criminals use it for autonomous malware[5]. Which is a type
of attack that can execute without any human intervention (no clicking links
or anything of that nature). It follows a predefined set of instructions. It is
actually one of the hardest to control or even detect because it has the ability
to act independently.
Therefore, the use of AI both as a defensive tool and a dangerous weapon
poses significant challenges and threats for digital forensics. To counteract these
attacks, digital forensic readiness models are being used. The goal of the models
is to detect the cyber-attacks before they occur or create a pattern for better
detection and prevention.
One of the ways they do this is by creating a blockchain, which is a dis-
tributed, decentralized ledger technology that securely records transactions across
computers. These blockchains ensure integrity in the evidence, as they can-
not be altered with, making it trustworthy and the evidence to have integrity.
Blockchains enhance digital forensic investigations.
Despite the existence of the current digital forensics readiness models named:
Systemic Digital Forensic Investigation (SDFIM) Model, Kruse Heiser Model
also known as Lucent, United States Department of Justice (USDOJ) model,
Abstract Digital Forensics Model (ADFM), The Integrated Digital Investigation
Process (IDIP), Digital Forensic Research Workshop model, and United States
Department of Justice (USDOJ) model [7], [8], [9], many of them are currently
5
not working as effectively as they should.
This is mainly due to the fast-evolving threat of artificial intelligence making
the field of digital forensics quite challenging especially due to AI-Powered cyber-
attacks/threats.
The purpose of this research is to create a digital readiness forensics model
that can counteract the cyber-attacks, this will be done by looking at the current
or rather traditional methods that are being used and address the factors that
make them not so effective as they should be. One of the features the model
will entail is the ability to have real time detection/response time