1.2 Problem Statement
As artificial intelligence keeps evolving, it has some positive impacts especially
in the field’s cybersecurity and digital forensics. While the growth of AI has
positive impacts it also has some negative aspects mainly due to the fact that
certain developers use it for malicious purposes. The main concerns being deep-
fake fraud/phishing as well as autonomous malware. The increasing use of
AI-Powered cyber-attacks using deepfake based phishing, or autonomous mal-
ware makes it harder for traditional or current digital forensic readiness models
to ‘keep up’. The current models are struggling to effectively detect, analyze
and investigate the cyber-attacks. Which is why it is quite important for these
models to evolve for them to be able to counterattack them. The objective
of the research is to develop an evolved Digital Forensic Readiness Model that
comprises of AI-Powered forensic techniques which have the ability to detect
cyber-attacks in real time.
1.3 Research Question:
The objective of this research is to investigate how digital forensics readiness
models can be improved or evolved to effectively detect, analyze as well as
respond to AI-Powered cyber-attacks in real time.
1.3.1 What are the current Digital Forensics Readiness Models that
are being used?
This question aims to analyze and address the current or existing digital foren-
sics readiness models. The aim is to analyze the type of techniques they use.
6
This research will also investigate what is currently the problem of the models
not being able to effectively detect and respond to the cyber-attacks. This re-
search will also dive into how these models can be evolved or improved for them
to work effectively.
1.3.2 What role can block-chains play into fighting and detecting
cyber-attacks
This question aims to analyze and research current block-chain technologies that
are being used and how they can be used in digital forensics and cybersecurity.
This research will go through the current block-chains that are being used and
how they are helpful during cyber-attacks. This research will also explore how
block-chains ensure and maintain data integrity as well as traceability. Lastly it
will also research the limitations and challenges of using block-chains in digital
forensics.
1.3.3 How can machine learning and AI forensics techniques assist
with improving real time detection
This question aims to research about the current AI-driven forensic techniques
that are currently being used. It will also research on how machine learning
algorithms can identify AI-Powered cyber threats or attacks more efficiently.
This research will also dive into the pros of machine learning and AI in digital
forensics. Lastly, the research will dive more into the risks and challenges that
are associated with using machine learning and AI forensics techniques.