To ensure the integrity and authenticity of digital evidence, the system incorporates a blockchain-based evidence logging mechanism. Once the evidence has been collected, a cryptographic hash is generated to create a unique fingerprint of the data. The hash along with timestamps and evidence identifiers is then recorded on a blockchain ledger. This phase is responsible for ensuring that the forensic integrity is maintained throughout the evidence lifecycle. 

The systems starts with processing incoming evidence data through Drizzle Object-Relational Mapper(ORM) library which creates structured and relational database objects which helps with evidence management. When the evidence content is received, both the data and its metadata is prepared for cryptographic processing. A repetitive process is performed to generate hash signatures for all evidence items. For each evidence item , the content is processed through SHA-256 hashing algorithms to generate the unique fingerprints. 

After the calculation of the content hash for the evidence payload, a block-chain link will be computed using the previous entry's cryptographic signature. This is handled using the "Generate Cryptographic Hashes" sub component. Before the blockchain hash can be computed for evidence entry, the combined entry which includes timestamps and previous block reference are first converted to a format that can be encoded into bytes. This is to maintain uniform data structures, and ensures that the blockchain verification does not produce inconsistent results. 

Finally, the values that are associated with each property in the object are the ones that are stored within the evidence database table. This is done by creating fields in the evidence schema and storing relevant cryptographic signatures inside their columns. The fields created within the evidence table are: id, contentHash, blockHash, previousHash, timestamp, and integrity. If there are multiple evidence entries processed concurrently, this process will be repeated for all forensic items while maintaining sequential blockchain ordering. 

The implementation of the blockchain is shown below: