 The prototype can be used in two different ways with a PDF document. Firstly, to protect a
 PDFdocumentusing our developed technique, the PDF must be run through the prototype
 so that a Hash can be generated and inserted into a PDF document. Secondly, to assess
 a PDF document for forgery or tampering, the PDF must be run through the prototype,
 in which the detection process will determine if changes have been made.
 The prototype is implemented in the Python language. The Hashlib and Merkly li
braries are used to generate the hashes. To read the file page objects of the PDF, we make
 use of the PDFRW library. The two main processes can be run independently of each
 other. Figure 3 describes the general process flow of the prototype.
 Figure 3: Prototype Flow
 14
The three main sub-components of the prototype will be discussed in more detail in
 the following sub-sections: in sub-section 3.2.1; we will discuss how a PDF document is
 protected against tampering; in sub-section 3.2.2, we will discuss how the hashes are gen
erated for a PDF document, and in sub-section 3.2.3 we will discuss how a PDF document
 is assessed for tampering.
 3.2.1 Protect the PDF
 The PDF document must have the calculated hashes to ensure the technique can detect
 and analyse tampering or forgery. The first phase: ’1. Protect The PDF’ sub-component
 from Figure 3 is responsible for this process.
 First, it will read the PDF document into the prototype using the PDFRW library,
 which produces a dictionary-like object for the parts of a PDF document. Once the PDF
 document has been read, we isolate the file page objects to use them for further processing.
 An iterative process of computing all the necessary hashes for a particular file page object
 will begin. For each page, the content stream of the file page object is then used to generate
 a Merkle tree; this is discussed in section 3.2.3.
 Following the calculation of the Merkle tree for the file page object content stream,
 a hash will be computed using the file page object itself. This is handled using the ”2.
 Generate Hashes” sub-component from Figure 3, which will be discussed in section 3.4.
 Before the hash can be computed for the file page object, it is first serialised and converted
 into a format that can be encoded into bytes. Because not all PDF document editors
 create and update a PDF document uniformly. certain sub-objects of the file page object
 are excluded when serialising. This is done to prevent the calculation of a protected PDF
 from producing a false result.
 After the hash values are calculated, they are stored in an object that looks as follows:
 { ’object’: hash value, ’root’, hash value, ’leafs’: list of hash values }. This object will be
 discussed further in section 3.4. The values associated with each heading in the object are
 the values we will store within the PDF document. This is done by creating three new
 keys in the relevant file page object and storing the relevant value inside its respective key.
 The keys created within the file page object are: hashobject, hashroot, and hashleafs. If
 there are four pages within the PDF document, this process will be repeated for all four
 pages.
 The next step to protect the PDF, which requires generating a hash value for the root
 object, which looks as follows: { ’root’: hash value, ’info’, hash value }. This object will be
 discussed further in section 3.4. The values associated with each heading in the object are
 the values we will store within the PDF document within the root object. This is done by
 creating two new keys in the root object and storing the relevant value inside its respective
 key. The keys that will be created within the file page object are: hashroot and hashinfo.
 Once the hashes have all been inserted into the relevant file page objects and the root
 object, we use the PDFRW library to save a new PDF document. The new PDF document
 is now the protected PDF document and can be used in ”3. Assessing for Forgery”. Figure
 4 shows an example output of the prototype.
 The next sub-section describes the process of generating the hashes.
 15
Figure 4: Protect The PDF
 3.2.2 Generating the Hashes
 The second phase, ”2. Generate Hashes” sub-component, is used in sub-components 1 and
 3. It is used to generate the object that was discussed in sub-section 3.2.1. This object
 is used to protect and assess tampering within the PDF document. The elements of the
 object and how they are generated will be discussed based on the order they are in within
 the object. For reference of what the object looks like: { ’object’: hash value, ’root’, hash
 value, ’leafs’: list of hash values}.
 The ’object’ hash value is calculated using the Hashlib libraries implementation of the
 SHA256 hashing algorithm. As discussed in the previous chapter, it is calculated using
 the file page object after it has been serialised and encoded into a byte stream.
 The ’root’ and ’leafs’ hash values are calculated simultaneously using the Merkly li
braries implementation of a Merkle root. This library makes use of the Keccak hashing
 algorithm. A Merkle root is the cumulative hash of all the hashes that comprise a Merkle
 tree. An example is seen in Figure 4. The ’root’ hash value we store within the PDF is
 Figure 5: Merkle Tree
 the Merkle root of the Merkle tree created using the content stream within the file page
 object. The content stream is divided into groups of 256 bytes, which are then used as
 the leaves within the Merkle tree. The ’leafs’ hash values in the object are the previously
 calculated hash values of the groups mentioned. These values are stored within the PDF
 to localise where a change has been made within the file page object. If a change is made
 to the content of the file page object where that change has been made, it can be localised
 to the nearest 256-byte group of the content stream.
 Once all three hash value groups have been calculated, they are returned to the sub
component. that called the second phase ”2. Generate Hashes” sub-component; this could
 be phase 1 or phase 3.
 After the previously mentioned hash values have been stored in the PDF, the calculation
 of the hash values for the root and metadata will be done. This is done second to the hash
 values for the file page objects because those hashes are included when calculating the root
 16
hash value. The hash object that will be produced is: { ’root’: hash value, ’info’, hash
 value }. The root hash value is calculated by serialising the sub-objects of the Root and
 calculating the hash with the produced value using the SHA256 algorithm. The info hash
 value is calculated by serialising the metadata of a PDF document and again using the
 SHA256 algorithm. The hash object is returned so the values can be stored in the root
 object or used for comparison. Figure 6 shows the output of the generated hashes.
 Figure 6: Generate The Hashes
 The following sub-section discusses the process of assessing a PDF for tampering or
 forgery.
 3.2.3 Assessing For PDF forgery
 The second primary function that the prototype can accomplish is the assessment of tam
pering within a PDF document. For phase 3, ”3. Assessing for Forgery”, to successfully
 detect tampering requires that phase 1 be run on the PDF document before the suspected
 tampering was done.
 To perform the assessment, the prototype will read in the PDF using the PDFRW
 library and extract the file page and root objects. It will then extract the hash values stored
 in the root object associated with the following keys: hashroot and hashinfo. Following
 this, it will extract all the groups of hashes for each file page object in the PDF document
 from the relevant keys. The keys that will be extracted are: hashobject, hashroot, and
 hashleafs.
 After extracting the hash values from the root object and the file page objects, the
 keys will be removed from the respective objects before calculating the hash value for the
 relevant object. The calculated hash values will be compared to the previously extracted
 hash values to determine if the file has been tampered with.
 A relevant message indicating the presence or absence of tampering will be displayed.
 Should tampering be detected within the PDF document, within the root object or the
 metadata of the PDF document, a message to indicate this will be displayed. If tampering
 17
has been detected, the page number where the changes were made will be displayed, and
 in which group of the byte stream the changes are. Figure 7 shows the output of the
 assessment for forgery.
 Figure 7: Assess for Forgery
 The following section concludes the chapter.
 3.3 Conclusion
 This chapter discussed how the prototype has been implemented in terms of the underlying
 architecture and libraries used. Following that, the core sub-components and how they
 function were discussed. The next chapter will discuss the experimentation done using the
 PDF to determine its efficiency and accuracy in detecting tampering or forgery