 Chapter Four: Prototype Experimentation
 4.1 Introduction
 This chapter discusses the way that the prototype has been evaluated. These evaluations
 are important in assessing the viability and validity of the prototype’s usage. The remain
der of the chapter is structured as follows: section 4.2 will discuss the different changes
 that will be made to the PDFs for the tests. Following the explanation of the tests, the
 results will be tabulated and briefly discussed in sub-section 4.3.
 4.2 Prototype Tests
 This section discusses the different types of changes that will be made to the PDFs. These
 changes are what the prototype will attempt to detect. Sub-sections 4.2.1- 4.2.5 explain
 the different changes, which are changes to the text, images, and metadata.
 4.2.1 PDF Document Without Hashes
 The simplest test that will be conducted on the PDF documents is using a PDF document
 that has not been protected by the prototype, i.e. it does not have any hashes stored.
 4.2.2 Altering the Text
 The most common form of change that will be made to a PDF document will be altering
 the text. We test the addition of text on a singular page, followed by testing the addition
 on multiple pages. Once we have tested the addition of text, we test the text alteration
 on single and multiple pages. The third type of test for altering text detection is removing
 text from a single page and multiple pages. Finally, to detect tampering with text, we will
 combine text addition, alteration, and removal in a combined test file.
 4.2.3 Altering Images
 The following significant change that we will assess the ability of the prototype to detect
 is alterations to an image. We test if the prototype can detect adding an image or mul
tiple images on different pages. Following this, we assess the prototype’s ability to detect
 alterations to an image on a page and, finally, its ability to detect the removal of images
 from a page or multiple pages.
 4.2.4 Altering the Metadata
 After we have tested the ability of the prototype to detect alterations to images, we assess
 its ability to detect changes to the metadata of the PDF document. We add elements,
 then we remove elements, and finally, alter metadata elements for the PDF document.
 The previously mentioned test cases are applied to singular and multiple elements of the
 PDF document.
 19
4.2.5 Combination of All Alterations
 The final test combines all of the types of alterations discussed in subsections 4.2.2 to 4.2.5.
 4.3 Final Results
 Tables 1- 5 below tabulate the results of all the tests mentioned in subsection 4.2. All PDF
 documents used in the test cases described below were first protected by the prototype,
 then the alterations were made. The only exception to this protection is the first test,
 which explicitly tests for the absence of the hashes. The PDF documents were created
 using Microsoft Word and Adobe Acrobat. The PDF names with a * at the beginning
 denote that the PDF was created with Microsoft Word; those without were created with
 Adobe Acrobat. All changes to the text, images and metadata within a PDF were done
 using Adobe Acrobat. The file page objects will change depending on the changes made
 to the text and images within a PDF document