 The PDF document must have the calculated hashes to ensure the technique can detect
 and analyse tampering or forgery. The first phase: ’1. Protect The PDF’ sub-component
 from Figure 3 is responsible for this process.
 First, it will read the PDF document into the prototype using the PDFRW library,
 which produces a dictionary-like object for the parts of a PDF document. Once the PDF
 document has been read, we isolate the file page objects to use them for further processing.
 An iterative process of computing all the necessary hashes for a particular file page object
 will begin. For each page, the content stream of the file page object is then used to generate
 a Merkle tree; this is discussed in section 3.2.3.
 Following the calculation of the Merkle tree for the file page object content stream,
 a hash will be computed using the file page object itself. This is handled using the ”2.
 Generate Hashes” sub-component from Figure 3, which will be discussed in section 3.4.
 Before the hash can be computed for the file page object, it is first serialised and converted
 into a format that can be encoded into bytes. Because not all PDF document editors
 create and update a PDF document uniformly. certain sub-objects of the file page object
 are excluded when serialising. This is done to prevent the calculation of a protected PDF
 from producing a false result.
 After the hash values are calculated, they are stored in an object that looks as follows:
 { ’object’: hash value, ’root’, hash value, ’leafs’: list of hash values }. This object will be
 discussed further in section 3.4. The values associated with each heading in the object are
 the values we will store within the PDF document. This is done by creating three new
 keys in the relevant file page object and storing the relevant value inside its respective key.
 The keys created within the file page object are: hashobject, hashroot, and hashleafs. If
 there are four pages within the PDF document, this process will be repeated for all four
 pages.
 The next step to protect the PDF, which requires generating a hash value for the root
 object, which looks as follows: { ’root’: hash value, ’info’, hash value }. This object will be
 discussed further in section 3.4. The values associated with each heading in the object are
 the values we will store within the PDF document within the root object. This is done by
 creating two new keys in the root object and storing the relevant value inside its respective
 key. The keys that will be created within the file page object are: hashroot and hashinfo.
 Once the hashes have all been inserted into the relevant file page objects and the root
 object, we use the PDFRW library to save a new PDF document. The new PDF document
 is now the protected PDF document and can be used in ”3. Assessing for Forgery”. Figure
 4 shows an example output of the prototype.
 The next sub-section describes the process of generating the hashes