5.3 Evaluation of Prototype Validity
 Since the objects must be serialised before they are used for the generation of the hash,
 should an addition or alteration be made that does not affect the selected elements, the
 prototype will not detect this change. Because all PDF editors save the PDF with a
 different underlying structure, we cannot serialise the entire object as is because the order
 of these objects will impact the produced hash. This same issue with adding custom
 elements to a PDF can be applied to the PDF metadata, where one can add their custom
 metadata elements. The issue with not being able to create a hash using the object
 consistently is a complex task requiring extensive research into the most consistent way to
 convert it into a uniform input for the hash function.
 When protecting the PDF document, a new file, a replica of the original that includes
 the hashes embedded into the file page objects, is created. This in itself is a form of
 tampering with the PDF document. There is no feasible way to insert the hashes into the
 original file without tampering. For the sake of later assessment by a document tampering
 specialist, the route of making a copy of the original file was chosen. This technique of
 protecting the PDF relies on the fact that only the protected PDF will be the one to be
 tampered with by a malicious individual.
 26
We rely on the content stream for the majority of the detection of changes to the
 content of a particular PDF document. This will only detect a change to the physical text
 or the image visible to the user. If you were to change the font for a particular line or the
 entire document, then the prototype would not be able to detect this. This stems from the
 issue mentioned in the previous paragraph, where not all file page object elements can be
 used to generate the object’s hash. While the content stream is part of the elements that
 make up a file page object, the current prototype uses its parent element when creating
 the hash for that particular file page object.
 The prototype succeeds at detecting tampering with a PDF document. This is, how
ever, limited to text, images and some types of alterations to metadata and the file page
 objects. There are still many ways to modify the PDF document that the prototype would
 not detect, such as adding JavaScript to the PDF document.
 The following section concludes the chapter.